.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Mon Aug 25 16:26:16 1997 by NicolАs Lichtmaier <nick@debian.org>
.\"
.\" Дата последней коррекции перевода 03.01.2004
.\" Перевод с английского сделал Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru>
.\" http://www.linuxshare.ru/projects/trans/mans.html
.\"
.TH GETDOMAINNAME 2 1997-08-25 "Linux 2.0" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
getdomainname, setdomainname \- получить/установить имя домена
.SH ОБЗОР
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int getdomainname(char *" name ", size_t " len );
.br
.BI "int setdomainname(const char *" name ", size_t " len );
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Эти функции используются для доступа к имени домена текущего процессора
или его изменения. Если длина имени домена, которое завершается нулевым
символом больше, чем \fIlen\fP байт,
.B getdomainname
возвращает либо первые \fIlen\fP байт (glibc) или ошибку (libc).
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
В случае успеха возвращается ноль. При ошибке возвращается \-1 и
значение
.I errno
устанавливается соответствующим образом.
.SH ОШИБКИ
.TP
.B EINVAL
Для
.BR getdomainname
в libc:
.I name
является
.B NULL
или
.I name
длиннее, чем
.I len
байт.
.TP
.B EINVAL
Для
.BR setdomainname :
.I len
является отрицательным или очень большим числом.
.TP
.B EPERM
Для
.BR setdomainname :
вызвавший не имеет прав суперпользователя.
.TP
.B EFAULT
Для
.BR setdomainname :
.I name
указывает за пределы адресного пространства пользователя.
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
POSIX не описывает эти вызовы.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
.BR gethostname (2),
.BR sethostname (2),
.BR uname (2)
.SH ПЕРЕВОД
Перевёл с английского Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru> 2003
