.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified 2002-04-15 by Roger Luethi <rl@hellgate.ch> and aeb
.\"
.\" Дата последней коррекции перевода 03.01.2004
.\" Перевод с английского сделал Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru>
.\" http://www.linuxshare.ru/projects/trans/mans.html
.\"
.TH GETDTABLESIZE 2 2002-04-15 "Linux 2.4" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
getdtablesize \- получить размер таблицы дескрипторов
.SH ОБЗОР
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B int getdtablesize(void);
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
.B getdtablesize
возвращает максимальное количетство файлов, которое может быть
открыто в процессе, на единицу больше, чем наибольшее возможное
значение для дескриптора файла.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
Текущее ограничение на количество открытых файлов для процесса.
.SH ЗАМЕЧАНИЕ
.B getdtablesize
реализуется как библиотечная функция libc. В glibc существует
вызов
.BR getrlimit (2),
которые возвращает для текущего процесса ограничение
.B RLIMIT_NOFILE
или
.B OPEN_MAX ,
если первый вызов закончился ошибкой.
В libc4 и libc5 возвращается значение
.B OPEN_MAX
(установленное в 256 начиная с Linux 0.98.4).
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
SVr4, 4.4BSD (функция
.B getdtablesize
впервые появилась в BSD 4.2).
.SH "СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ"
.BR close (2),
.BR dup (2),
.BR getrlimit (2),
.BR open (2)
.SH ПЕРЕВОД
Перевёл с английского Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru> 2003
