.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Дата последней коррекции перевода 11.12.2003
.\" Оригинальный перевод Алексея Махоткина <alexm@hsys.msk.ru> 1999-2001
.\" Дополнения и правки перевода сделал Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru>
.\" http://www.linuxshare.ru/projects/trans/mans.html
.\"
.TH GETGID 2 1993-07-23 "Linux 0.99.11" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH НАЗВАНИЕ
getgid, getegid \- получить группу процесса
.SH ОБЗОР
.B #include <unistd.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.sp
.B gid_t getgid(void);
.br
.B gid_t getegid(void);
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
.B getgid
возвращает действительный идентификатор группы текущего процесса.

.B getegid
возвращает еффективный идентификатор группы текущего процесса. 

Действительный идентификатор соответствует идентификатору вызывающего
процесса.  Эффективный идентификатор соответствует биту setuid на
исполняемом файле.
.SH ОШИБКИ
Эти функции всегда завершаются успешно.
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
POSIX, BSD 4.3
.SH "СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ"
.BR setregid (2),
.BR setgid (2)
.SH ПЕРЕВОД
Перевод Copyright (C) Alexey Mahotkin <alexm@hsys.msk.ru> 2000,
Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru> 2003