.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Updated with additions from Mitchum DSouza <m.dsouza@mrc-apu.cam.ac.uk>
.\" Portions Copyright 1993 Mitchum DSouza <m.dsouza@mrc-apu.cam.ac.uk>
.\"
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 00:22:35 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.\" Дата последней коррекции перевода 03.01.2004
.\" Перевод с английского сделал Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru>
.\" http://www.linuxshare.ru/projects/trans/mans.html
.\"
.TH GETHOSTID 2 1993-11-29 "Linux 0.99.13" "Руководство программста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
gethostid, sethostid \- получить или установить уникальный идентификатор
текущей машины
.SH ОБЗОР
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B long gethostid(void);
.br
.BI "int sethostid(long " hostid );
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Получает или устанавливает уникальный 32-битный идентификатор текущей
машины. Этот идентификатор задумывался как уникальный для всех существующих
UNIX систем. В принципе, он похож на Интернет адрес для локальной машины,
который возвращается
.BR gethostbyname (3),
и таким образом его никогда не нужно устанавливать.

Вызов
.B sethostid
может осуществляться только суперпользователем.

Аргумент
.I hostid
сохраняется в файле
.IR /etc/hostid .
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
.B gethostid
возвращает 32-битный идентификатор текущей машины, установленный
.BR sethostid (2).
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
4.2BSD.  Эти функции были удалены в 4.4BSD.
POSIX.1 не определяет эти функции, но ISO/IEC 9945-1:1990 упоминает
о них в B.4.4.1.  SVr4 включает 
.B gethostid
но не
.BR sethostid .
.SH ФАЙЛЫ
.I /etc/hostid
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
.BR hostid (1),
.BR gethostbyname (3)
.SH ПЕРЕВОД
Перевёл с английского Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru> 2003
