.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1997 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified, 2003-05-26, Michael Kerrisk, <mtk16@ext,canterbury.ac.nz>
.\"
.\" Дата последней коррекции перевода 29.05.2004
.\" Перевод с английского сделал Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru>
.\" http://www.linuxshare.ru/projects/trans/mans.html
.\"
.TH GETRESUID 2 2003-05-26 "Linux 2.4" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
getresuid, getresgid \- получить реальный, эффективный и сохранённый
идентификатор пользователя или группы
.SH ОБЗОР
.B #define _GNU_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int getresuid(uid_t *" ruid ", uid_t *" euid ", uid_t *" suid );
.br
.BI "int getresgid(gid_t *" rgid ", gid_t *" egid ", gid_t *" sgid ); 
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
.B getresuid
и
.B getresgid
(оба вызова введены в Linux 2.1.44)
получают реальный, эффективный или сохранённый идентифкатор пользователя
(или соответственно группы) для текущего процесса.

.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
В случае успеха, возвращается ноль. В случае ошибки, возвращается \-1 и
значение
.I errno
устанавливается соответствующим образом.
.SH ОШИБКИ
.TP
.B EFAULT
Один из заданных аргументов находится за пределами адресного
пространства, вызывающей программы.
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
Данный вызов является специфичным для Linux.
Прототип появился в glibc, начиная с версии 2.3.2 и предоставляется,
если задан флаг _GNU_SOURCE is defined.
.SH "СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ"
.BR getuid (2),
.BR setuid (2),
.BR setreuid (2),
.BR setresuid (2)
.SH ПЕРЕВОД
Перевёл с английского Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru> 2004
