.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS `AS IS' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.

.\"
.\"     @(#)getsockname.2	6.4 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 16:30:29 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 00:22:35 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Sun Mar 28 21:26:46 1999 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.\" Дата последней коррекции перевода 11.12.2003
.\" Оригинальный перевод Алексея Махоткина <alexm@hsys.msk.ru> 1999-2001
.\"
.TH GETSOCKNAME 2 1993-07-24 "Из BSD man" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
getsockname \- получить имя сокета
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int getsockname(int " s ", struct sockaddr *" name ", socklen_t *" namelen );
.fi
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
.B getsockname
возвращает текущее имя указанного сокета в параметре
.IR name .
В параметре
.I namelen
должно быть указано, сколько места выделено под
.IR name .
При возврате в этом параметре передается реальный использованный
размер в байтах.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
В случае успеха возвращается ноль.  При ошибке возвращается \-1, а 
значение
.I errno
устанавливается должным образом.

.SH ОШИБКИ

.TP
.B EBADF
Неверный файловый дескриптор
.IR s .
.TP
.B ENOTSOCK
Аргумент
.IR  " --"
это файл, а не сокет.
.TP
.B ENOBUFS
В системе недостаточно ресурсов для выполнения операции.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I name
указывает за пределы доступного адресного пространства.
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
SVr4, 4.4BSD (функция
.B getsockname
появилась в 4.2BSD).  SVr4 документирует дополнительные коды ошибок
ENOMEM и ENOSR.
.SH ЗАМЕЧАНИЕ
Третий аргумент функции
.B getsockname
в действительности имеет тип int * (это именно так в BSD 4.*, libc4
и libc5).  Определенное недопонимание привело к тому, что в стандарте
POSIX появился тип socklen_t.  Черновик стандарта еще не принят, но
glibc2 уже следует ему и также содержит socklen_t.  См. также
.BR accept (2).
.SH "СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ"
.BR bind "(2), " socket (2)
.SH ПЕРЕВОД
Copyright (C) Alexey Mahotkin <alexm@hsys.msk.ru> 1999
