.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2003 Abhijit Menon-Sen <ams@wiw.org>
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Дата последней коррекции перевода 01.01.2004
.\" Перевод с английского сделал Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru>
.\" http://www.linuxshare.ru/projects/trans/mans.html
.\"
.TH GETTID 2 "2003-02-01" "Linux 2.4.20" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
gettid \- получить идентификацию треда
.SH ОБЗОР
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <linux/unistd.h>
.sp
.B _syscall0(pid_t,gettid)
.sp
.B pid_t gettid(void);
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
\fBgettid\fP возвращает идентифкатор треда текущего процесса. Это эквивалентно
идентифкатору процесса (который возвращает
.BR getpid (2)),
за исключением того, что данный процесс является частью группы тредов
(созданной через флаг CLONE_THREAD в системном вызове
.BR clone (2)).
Все процессы в той же группе тредов имеют одинаковый идентифкатор процесса
PID, но каждый из них имеет уникальный идентификатор треда процесса TID.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
В случае успеха возвращает идентификатор треда TID текущего процесса.
.SH ОШИБКИ
Этот системный вызов всегда завершается успешно.
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
Вызов \fBgettid\fP является специфичным для Linux и не должен использоваться
в программах, которые задумываются как кросплатформенные.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
.BR getpid (2),
.BR clone (2),
.BR fork (2)
.SH ПЕРЕВОД
Перевёл с английского Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru> 2003
