.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Дата последней коррекции перевода 01.01.2004
.\" Перевод с английского сделал Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru>
.\" http://www.linuxshare.ru/projects/trans/mans.html
.\"
.TH GETUID 2 1993-07-23 "Linux 0.99.11" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH ИМЯ
getuid, geteuid \- получить идентифкатор пользоватля
.SH ОБЗОР
.B #include <unistd.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.sp
.B uid_t getuid(void);
.br
.B uid_t geteuid(void);
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
.B getuid
возвращает фактический идентификатор ID пользователя в текущем процессе.

.B geteuid
возвращает эффективный идентификатор ID пользователя в текущем процессе.

Фактический ID соответствует ID пользователя, который вызвал процесс.
Эффективный ID соответствует установленному setuid биту на исполняемом
файле.
.SH ОШИБКИ
Эти функции всегда завершаются успешно.
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
POSIX, BSD 4.3.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
.BR setreuid (2),
.BR setuid (2)
.SH ПЕРЕВОД
Перевёл с английского Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru> 2003
