.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)killpg.2	6.5 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Fri Jul 23 21:55:01 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 08:11:14 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.\" Дата последней коррекции перевода 14.06.2004
.\" Перевод с английского сделал Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru>
.\" http://www.linuxshare.ru/projects/trans/mans.html
.\"
.TH KILLPG 2 1993-07-23 "BSD Man Page" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
killpg \- послать сигнал группе процессов
.SH ОБЗОР
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.BI "int killpg(int " pgrp ", int " sig );
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
.B Killpg
посылает сигнал
.I sig
группе процессов
.IR pgrp .
Перечень сигналов смотри в
.BR sigaction (2) .
Если
.I pgrp
равно 0,
.B killpg
посылает сигнал группе процессов, которой принадлежит посылающий этот сигнал
процесс.

Посылающий процесс и члены группы процессов должны иметь один и тот же
эффективный идентификатор пользователя или посылающий процесс должен иметь
права суперпользователя. В единственном специальном случае, сигнал
.B SIGCONT
может быть послан любому процессу, который является потомком текущего
процесса.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
В случае успеха, возвращается ноль. В случае ошибки возвращается \-1 и
значение
.I errno
устанавливается соответствующим образом.
.SH ОШИБКИ
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I Sig
не является допустимым номером сигнала.
.TP
.B ESRCH
Не найдено процессов в группе процессов, заданной через
.IR pgrp .
.TP
.B ESRCH
Группа процессов была указана как 0, но посылающий сигнал процесс
не имеет группы процессов.
.TP
.B EPERM
Посылающий сигнал процесс не имеет привелегий суперпользователя, а
один или более процессов, для которых посылается сигнал имеют
эффективный идентификатор пользователя, который отличается от
эффективного идентификатора пользователя посылающего процесса.
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
SVr4, 4.4BSD (Вызов
.B killpg
сперва появился в 4.0BSD).
.SH "СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ"
.BR kill (2),
.BR getpgrp (2),
.BR signal (2)
.SH ПЕРЕВОД
Перевёл с английского Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru> 2004
