.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1995 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

.\"
.\" Written 10 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified Thu Oct 31 15:16:23 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.\" Дата последней коррекции перевода 01.01.2004
.\" Оригинальный перевод Алексея Махоткина <alexm@hsys.msk.ru> 1999-2001
.\" Дополнения и правки перевода сделал Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru>
.\" http://www.linuxshare.ru/projects/trans/mans.html
.\"
.TH LLSEEK 2 1995-06-10 "Linux 1.2.9" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
_llseek \- установить позицию чтения/записи в файле
.SH ОБЗОР
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B #include <linux/unistd.h>
.sp
.B _syscall5(int, _llseek, uint, fd, ulong, hi, ulong, lo, loff_t *, res, uint, wh);
.sp
.BI "int _llseek(unsigned int " fd ", unsigned long " offset_high ,
.BI "unsigned long " offset_low ", loff_t *" result ", unsigned int " whence );
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция
.B _llseek
устанавливает позицию в файле, заданном параметром
.I fd
в значение
.I (offset_high<<32) | offset_low
байт относительно начала файла, текущей позиции в файле или конца
файла, в зависимости от того, равен ли параметр
.I whence
одному из значений
.BR SEEK_SET ,
.BR SEEK_CUR ,
или
.BR SEEK_END ,
соответственно.
Функция возвращает результирующую позицию в файле в аргументе
.IR result .

.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
В случае успеха возвращается ноль.  При ошибке возвращается \-1, а 
.I errno
устанавливается должным образом.

.SH ОШИБКИ
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
не является открытым файловым дескриптором.
.TP
.B EINVAL
Значение
.I whence
неверно.
.TP
.B EFAULT
Проблема с копированием результатов в пространство пользователя.
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
Эта функция специфична для Linux и не должна использоваться в
программах, которые должны быть переносимы.
.SH "СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ"
.BR lseek (2)
.SH ПЕРЕВОД
Copyright (C) Alexey Mahotkin <alexm@hsys.msk.ru> 1999,
Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru> 2003