.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1995 Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com), 15 April 1995.
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified 22 July 1995 by Michael Chastain (mec@duracef.shout.net):
.\"   Fixed incorrect word in 'TH' call.
.\"
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 16:44:55 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.\" Дата последней коррекции перевода 11.12.2003
.\" Перевод с английского сделал Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru>
.\" http://www.linuxshare.ru/projects/trans/mans.html
.\"
.TH OBSOLETE 2 1995-07-22 "Linux 2.0" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
oldfstat, oldlstat, oldstat, oldolduname, olduname \- устаревшие системные вызовы
.SH ОБЗОР
Устаревшие системные вызовы.
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Ядро Linux 2.0 реализовывает эти вызовы для поддержки старых программ.
Эти вызовы возвращают структуры, которые увеличились с момента их
первой реализации, но старые программы должны продолжать получать старые
маленькие структуры.
.PP
В настоящий момент программы должны быть связаны с текущими версиями
библиотек и никогда не использовать эти вызовы.
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
Эти вызовы являются уникальными для Linux и не должны использоваться в
новых программах.
.SH "СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ"
.BR fstat (2),
.BR lstat (2),
.BR stat (2),
.BR uname (2),
.BR unimplemented (2)
.SH ПЕРЕВОД
Перевёл с английского Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru> 2003
