.\" Copyright (C) 1995, Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Created   Sat Aug 21 1995     Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\"
.\" typo corrected, aeb, 950825
.\" added layout change from joey, 960722
.\" changed prototype, documented 0xffffffff, aeb, 030101
.\" Modified 2004-11-03 patch from Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.org>
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH PERSONALITY 2 2003\-01\-01 Linux "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
personality \- устанавливает домен исполнения процесса
.SH ОБЗОР
\fB#include <sys/personality.h>\fP
.sp
\fBint personality(unsigned long \fP\fIpersona\fP\fB);\fP
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Linux поддерживает несколько видов доменов исполнения процессов или
специализаций (personalities) для каждого процесса. Среди прочего, домены
исполнения указывают Linux как связывать номера сигналов с обработчиками
сигналов. Система доменов исполнения позволяет Linux частично поддерживать
программы, собранные в других ОС, подобных UNIX.

Эта функция возвращает текущее значение \fBpersonality\fP(), если значение
\fIpersona\fP равно 0xffffffff. Иначе, она сделает домен исполнения, на который
ссылается \fIpersona\fP, новым доменом исполнения вызывающего процесса.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
При нормальном завершении работы возвращается предыдущее значение
\fIpersona\fP. При ошибке возвращается \-1, а переменная \fIerrno\fP,
устанавливается в соответствующее значение.
.SH ОШИБКИ
.TP 
\fBEINVAL\fP
Ядру не удалось изменить специализацию.
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
Вызов \fBpersonality\fP() есть только в Linux, и он не должен использоваться в
переносимых программах.
