.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS `AS IS' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.

.\"
.\"     @(#)setregid.2	6.4 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 09:08:49 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Portions extracted from linux/kernel/sys.c:
.\"             Copyright (C) 1991, 1992  Linus Torvalds
.\"             May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.\" Changes: Fri Jul 29 10:56:01 BST 1994 by Wilf. <G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk>
.\"          Tue Aug  2 14:56:48 BST 1994 by Wilf due to changes in kernel.
.\"
.TH SETREGID 2 "2nd August 1994" "Linux 1.1.38" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH НАЗВАНИЕ
setregid, setegid \- установить действительный и/или фактический идентификатор группы
.SH КРАТКАЯ СВОДКА
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int setregid(gid_t " rgid ", gid_t " egid );
.br
.BI "int setegid(gid_t " egid );
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
.B setregid
устанавливает действительный и фактический идентификатор группы
текущего процесса.  Непривилегированные пользователи могут изменять
действительный идентификатор на фактический и наоборот.

В Linux до версии 1.1.38 парадигма сохраненных идентификаторов,
которая использовалась вместе с
.B setregid 
или
.BR setegid ,
была неверно реализована.  Начиная с 1.1.38, можно устанавливать
фактический идентификатор группы в сохраненный идентификатор группы.

Все остальные изменения может делать только суперпользователь.

Передавая \-1 в качестве действительного или фактического
идентификатора группы оставляет этот идентификатор без изменений.

В настоящий момент (libc-4.x.x), вызов
.BI setegid( egid )
функционально эквивалентен вызову
.BI setregid(  -1  , " egid" ) \fR.

Если действительный идентификатор группы изменяется или фактический
идентификатор группы устанавливается в значение, не равное предыдущему 
действительному идентификатору, то сохраненный идентификатор группы
будет установлен в новый фактический идентификатор группы.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
В случае успеха возвращается ноль.  При ошибке возвращается \-1, а 
.I errno
устанавливается должным образом.

.SH ERRORS
.TP
.TP
.B EPERM
Текущий процесс не имеет прав суперпользователя и пытается выполнить
что-то помимо (i) обмена фактического идентификатора на
действительный, (ii) установки одного в значение другого, или же (iii) 
установки фактического идентификатора группы в значение сохраненного
идентификатора группы.
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
BSD 4.3 (системный вызов
.B setregid
впервые появился в 4.2BSD).
.SH "СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ"
.BR getgid (2),
.BR setgid (2)
.SH ПЕРЕВОД
Перевод Copyright (C) Alexey Mahotkin <alexm@hsys.msk.ru> 2000

http://alexm.here.ru/manpages-ru/
