.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 12:51:53 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:39:04 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Thu May  1 06:05:54 UTC 1997 by NicolАs Lichtmaier
.\"  <nick@debian.com> with Lars Wirzenius <liw@iki.fi> suggestion
.\"
.\" Дата последней коррекции перевода 28.07.2004
.\" Перевод с английского сделал Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru>
.\" http://www.linuxshare.ru/projects/trans/mans.html
.\"
.TH UMASK 2 1998-08-09 "Linux" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
umask \- установить маску создания файла
.SH ОБЗОР
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.sp
.BI "mode_t umask(mode_t " mask );
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
.B umask
устанавливает значение umask в
.I mask 
& 0777.

Значение umask используется
.BR open (2)
для устновки начальных прав доступа к файлу при создании нового файла.
Важно, что права в umask выключаются из аргумента \fBmode\fR в
.BR open (2)
(так, например, типичное значение umask по умолчанию 022, в результате,
в обычном случае, если \fBmode\fR будет задано как 0666, новые файлы
будут созданы с правами 0666 & ~022 = 0644 = rw-r--r--).
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
Данный системный вызов всегда отрабатывает без ошибок и возвращает
предыдущее значение umask.
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
SVr4, SVID, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH "СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ"
.BR creat (2),
.BR open (2)
.SH ПЕРЕВОД
Перевёл с английского Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru> 2004
