.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1995 Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com), 15 April 1995.
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Updated, aeb, 980612
.\"
.\" Дата последней коррекции перевода 08.12.2003
.\" Перевод с английского сделал Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru>
.\" http://www.linuxshare.ru/projects/man/
.\"
.TH UNIMPLEMENTED 2 2003-02-28 "Linux 2.4" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
afs_syscall, break, ftime, getpmsg, gtty, lock, mpx, prof, profil,
putpmsg, security, stty, ulimit \- нереализованные системные вызовы
.SH ОБЗОР
Нереализованные системные вызовы.
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Данные системные вызовы не реализованы в ядре Linux 2.4.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
Данные системные вызовы всегда возвращают \-1 и устанавливают
.I errno
в значение
.BR ENOSYS .
.SH ЗАМЕЧАНИЯ
Заметим, что
.IR ftime (3),
.IR profil (3)
и
.IR ulimit (3)
реализуются как библиотечные функции.

Некоторые системные вызовы, такие как
.IR alloc_hugepages (2),
.IR free_hugepages (2),
.IR ioperm (2),
.IR iopl (2),
и
.IR vm86 (2)
существуют только в определённых архитектурах (на определённых аппаратных
платформах -- прим. пер.).

Некоторые системные вызовы, такие как
.IR ipc (2)
и
.IR {create,init,delete}_module (2)
существуют только если ядро Linux было собрано с их поддержкой.

.SH "СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ"
.BR obsolete (2)
.SH ПЕРЕВОД
Перевёл с английского Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru> 2003
