.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Дата последней коррекции перевода 24.05.2004
.\" Перевод с английского сделал Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru>
.\" http://www.linuxshare.ru/projects/trans/mans.html
.\"
.TH VHANGUP 2 1993-07-24 "Linux 0.99.11" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
vhangup \- виртуальный hangup текущего терминала tty
.SH ОБЗОР
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B int vhangup(void);
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
.B vhangup
симулирует hungup (разрыв связи) на текущем терминале. Этот вызов
позволяет другим пользователям получить \*(lqчистый\*(rq терминал
при входе в систему.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
При успехе возвращается ноль. При ошибке возвращается \-1 и
значение
.I errno
устанавливается соответствующим образом.
.SH ОШИБКИ
.TP
.B EPERM
Текущий пользователь не является суперпользователем.
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
Данный вызов является специфичным для Linux и не должен использоваться
в программах, которые задумываются как переносимые на другие платформы.
.SH "СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ"
.BR init (8)
.SH ПЕРЕВОД
Перевёл с английского Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru> 2004
