.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:06:03 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" 
.\" Дата последней коррекции перевода 07.03.2004
.\" Перевод с английского сделал Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru>
.\" http://www.linuxshare.ru/projects/man/
.\"
.TH GROUP 5 1992-12-29 "Linux" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
group \- файл групп пользователей
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
\fB/etc/group\fP это ASCII файл, который описывает группы, членами
которых являются пользователи. В каждой строке файла содержится одна
запись, следующего формата:
.sp
.RS
group_name:password:GID:user_list
.RE
.sp
Вот описания этих полей:
.IP group_name
это имя конкретной группы.
.IP password
(в зашифрованном виде) пароль группы.  Если это поле пустое, то
никакой пароль не нужен.
.IP GID
цифровой идентификатор (ID) группы.
.IP user_list
разделённые запятыми имена всех пользователей, которые являются членами
данной группы.
.SH "ЗАМЕЧАНИЕ ПЕРЕВОДЧИКА"
В \fIuser_list\fP не указываются те пользователи, для которых данная
группа является первичной. Таким образом в \fIuser_list\fP указаны не
все пользователи, которые являются членами данной группы.
.SH ФАЙЛЫ
/etc/group
.SH "СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ"
.BR login (1),
.BR newgrp (1),
.BR passwd (5)
.SH ПЕРЕВОД
Перевёл с английского Виктор Вислобоков <corochoone@perm.ru> 2004
