.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de), Thu May 20 20:45:48 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:11:07 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sun Nov 21 10:49:38 1993 by Michael Haardt
.\" Modified Sun Feb 26 15:09:15 1995 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH SHELLS 5 "November 21, 1993" "" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH НАЗВАНИЕ
shells \- полные имена командных оболочек, разрешенных для входа в
систему
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
.BR  /etc/shells " --"
это текстовый файл, содержащий полные имена командных оболочек,
разрешенных для входа в систему.  К этому файлу обращается
.BR chsh (1),
а также некоторые другие программы.
.PP
Имейте в виду, что некоторые программы обращаются к этому файлу, чтобы 
выяснить, является ли пользователь обычным пользователем.  Например,
ftp-демоны традиционно запрещают доступ пользователям, чьи командные
оболочки не перечислены в этом файле.
.SH ПРИМЕРЫ
.B /etc/shells
может содержать такие строки:
.sp
.RS
.I /bin/sh
.br
.I /bin/csh
.RE
.SH ФАЙЛЫ
.I /etc/shells
.SH "СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ"
.BR chsh (1),
.BR getusershell (3)
