.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Mon Mar 29 22:31:13 1993, David Metcalfe
.\" Modified Sun Jun  6 23:27:50 1993, David Metcalfe
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:45:37 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sat Dec 16 15:02:59 2000, Joseph S. Myers
.\"
.\" Переведен на русский Fri 22 Sep 2000 11:26:59, Alexey V. Medvedev 2:5022/78.6
.TH ABS 3  "17 декабря 2000" "GNU" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
abs, labs, llabs, imaxabs \- вычисляет абсолютное значение (модуль) целого числа.
.SH СИНТАКСИС
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int abs(int " j );
.br
.BI "long int labs(long int " j );
.br
.BI "long long int llabs(long long int " j );
.sp
.B #include <inttypes.h>
.sp
.BI "intmax_t imaxabs(intmax_t " j );
.fi
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBabs()\fP вычисляет абсолютное значение (модуль)
целочисленного аргумента \fIj\fP.  Функции
.BR labs() ,
.BR llabs() ,
и
.BR imaxabs ()
вычисляют абсолютное значение аргумента
.IR j ,
который имеет соответствующий целочисленный тип.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
Возвращает модуль целочисленного аргумента. 
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
SVID 3, POSIX.1, BSD 4.3, ISO/IEC 9899.  POSIX.1 (редакция 1996)
требует наличия только функции
.BR abs() .
ISO/IEC 9899:1990 (C89) включает в себя только функции
.B abs()
и
.BR labs() ;
функции
.B llabs()
и
.B imaxabs()
были добавлены в C99.
.SH ЗАМЕЧАНИЯ
Результат вычисления абсолютного значения наибольшего по модулю отрицательного целого
числа не определен.
.PP
Функция
.B llabs() включена в glibc начиная с версии 2.0, но не присутствует в
libc5 или libc4.  Функция
.B imaxabs()
включена в glibc начиная с версии 2.1.1.
.PP
Для того, чтобы появилось объявление функции
.BR llabs() ,
может потребоваться объявить
.B _ISOC99_SOURCE
или
.B _ISOC9X_SOURCE
(зависит от версии glibc) до включения стандартных заголовочных
файлов.
.PP
GCC обрабатывает
.B abs()
и
.B labs()
как встроенные функции.  GCC 3.0 точно так же обрабатывает еще и
.B llabs()
и
.BR imaxabs() .
.SH "СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ"
.BR ceil "(3), "
.BR floor "(3), "
.BR fabs "(3), "
.BR labs "(3), "
.BR rint (3)
