.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\" and Copyright 2008, Linux Foundation, written by Michael Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2002-07-25 by Walter Harms
.\" 	(walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH ACOSH 3 2010\-09\-20 "" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
acosh, acoshf, acoshl \- функция вычисления обратного гиперболического
косинуса
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <math.h>\fP
.sp
\fBdouble acosh(double \fP\fIx\fP\fB);\fP
.br
\fBfloat acoshf(float \fP\fIx\fP\fB);\fP
.br
\fBlong double acoshl(long double \fP\fIx\fP\fB);\fP
.sp
.fi
Компонуется при указании параметра \fI\-lm\fP.
.sp
.in -4n
Требования макроса тестирования свойств для glibc
(см. \fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7)):
.in
.sp
.ad l
\fBacosh\fP():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500 || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED || _ISOC99_SOURCE || _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
или \fIcc\ \-std=c99\fP
.RE
.br
\fBacoshf\fP(), \fBacoshl\fP():
.RS 4
_BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 600 || _ISOC99_SOURCE
|| _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L;
.br
или \fIcc\ \-std=c99\fP
.RE
.ad b
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBacosh\fP() вычисляет обратный гиперболический косинус значения \fIx\fP;
гиперболический конус результата будет равен \fIx\fP.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
При успешном выполнении данные функции возвращают обратный гиперболический
косинус от \fIx\fP.

Если \fIx\fP равно NaN, будет возвращено NaN.

Если \fIx\fP равно +1, будет возвращён +0.

Если \fIx\fP стремится к плюс бесконечности, то будет возвращена плюс
бесконечность.

Если \fIx\fP меньше 1, то будет сгенерирована ошибка выхода за пределы области,
а в качестве результата будет возвращено NaN.
.SH ОШИБКИ
Смотрите \fBmath_error\fP(7), чтобы определить, какие ошибки могут возникать
при вызове этих функций.
.PP
Могут возникать следующие ошибки:
.TP 
Ошибка области: \fIx\fP меньше 1
Значение \fIerrno\fP устанавливается в \fBEDOM\fP. Вызывается исключение
неправильной плавающей точки (\fBFE_INVALID\fP).
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
C99, POSIX.1\-2001. Вариант, возвращающий значение типа \fIdouble\fP, также
соответствует SVr4, 4.3BSD и C89.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBasinh\fP(3), \fBatanh\fP(3), \fBcacosh\fP(3), \fBcosh\fP(3), \fBsinh\fP(3), \fBtanh\fP(3)
