.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Mon Mar 29 22:39:24 1993, David Metcalfe
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:39:22 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Переведен на русский Fri 22 Sep 2000 11:26:59, Alexey V. Medvedev 2:5022/78.6
.TH ATOF 3  "March 29, 1993" "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH ИМЯ
atof \- преобразование строки символов в число типа double.
.SH СИНТАКСИС
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "double atof(const char *" nptr );
.fi
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBatof()\fP преобразует начальную часть строки, на которую указывает
\fInptr\fP, в число типа double.  Действие функции аналогично
.sp
.RS
.B strtod(nptr, (char **)NULL);
.RE
.sp
за исключением того, что \fBatof()\fP не распознает ошибки.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
Преобразованное число.
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ"
.BR atoi "(3), " atol "(3), " strtod "(3), " strtol "(3), " strtoul (3)
