.\" Copyright (C) 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:06:49 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Fri Aug 25 23:17:51 1995 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Modified Wed Dec 18 00:47:18 1996 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.TH STRCPY 3  "11 апреля 1993" "GNU" "Руководство программиста"
.SH НАЗВАНИЕ
strcpy, strncpy \- копирование строки
.SH СИНТАКСИС
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strcpy(char *" dest ", const char *" src );
.sp
.BI "char *strncpy(char *" dest ", const char *" src ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBstrcpy()\fP копирует строку, указанную как \fIsrc\fP
(включая завершающий символ `\\0'), в массив, указанный как \fIdest\fP.
Строки не могут перекрываться, и в целевой строке \fIdest\fP должно
быть достаточно места для получения копии.
.PP
Функция \fBstrncpy\fP работает подобным образом, но
копируются только первые \fIn\fP байт строки \fIsrc\fP.  Таким образом, если
нулевой байт отсутствует в первых \fIn\fP байтах \fIsrc\fP, то
результирующая строка не будет завершена символом `\\0'.
.PP
В случае, если длина
.I src
меньше, чем
.IR n ,
то остаток
.I dest
будет заполнен нулями.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
Функции \fBstrcpy()\fP и \fBstrncpy()\fP возвращают указатель на
целевую строку \fIdest\fP.
.SH ОШИБКИ РЕАЛИЗАЦИИ
Если целевая строка \fBstrcpy\fP недостаточно велика (такое случается,
если программист идиот/болван и не проверяет размер перед
копированием), то может случится ужасное. Переполнение строк
фиксированной длины является любимым методом крэкеров.
.SH СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "СМОТРИ ТАКЖЕ"
.BR bcopy "(3), " memccpy "(3), " memcpy "(3), " memmove (3)
.SH ПЕРЕВОД
.nf
Перевод с английского (C) 2000 Дмитрий Морожников 
    (dm@simplex.irkutsk.ru, 2:5070/141.3)
.fi
