.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:19:57 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH INTRO 6 "24 июля 1993" "Linux" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH НАЗВАНИЕ
intro \- Введение к играм
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Эта глава описывает все игры и маленькие забавные программки, имеющиеся в
системе.
.SH АВТОРЫ
Имена авторов и информацию об авторских правах смотрите в заголовках страниц.
Заметьте, что они могут отличаться на разных страницах!

.SH ПЕРЕВОД
Юрий Козлов <y_kozlov@chat.ru>.
.\" man-pages-1.34
.\" 
.\" Чтв Фев  8 17:44:47 MSK 2001
.\" Linux User Group г.Сергиев Посад http://spslug.sposad.ru/
.\" HomePage                         http://www.chat.ru/~y_kozlov/
